---
title: Write an email with Copilot
description: Learn how customer service representatives can use Copilot to draft emails to increase productivity.
author: gandhamm
ms.author: mgandham
ms.reviewer: mgandham
ms.topic: how-to
ms.collection: bap-ai-copilot
ms.date: 05/15/2025
ms.custom: bap-template 
---

# Write an email with Copilot

[!INCLUDE[cc-feature-availability-cfs-yes](../includes/cc-feature-availability-cfs-yes.md)]

When you draft customer emails, Copilot can offer suggestions to make them clear, concise, and compelling.

*Always review the response* Copilot generates before you send the email to the customer.

## Prerequisites

- Your administrator has enabled this feature.
- You have the required permissions to use Copilot.

## Navigation

- In Copilot Service workspace, you can access **Ask a question** from the Copilot help pane once you sign in.
- When you sign in to a non-Microsoft CRM, you can access the feature as follows:
   - Launch the embedded experience and then login to your Dynamics account.
   - In the Copilot help pane that appears, select **Write an email**.
   - Open the email to use the feature.
  
## Use Copilot to draft an email

You can use Copilot in the email editor or use the predefined prompts in the Copilot help pane to draft an email. 

  ### [Draft an email in the rich text editor](#tab/richtexteditor)

  When you use Copilot to draft an email, you can use the following features to help you write a response to a customer.

 **Use prompts**

 You can use the predefined prompts to generate email drafts in the **Write an email** tab of the Copilot help pane:

 - **Suggest a call**: Drafts a reply that suggests a call with the customer the same day or the next day.
 - **Request more information**: Drafts a reply that requests more details from the customer to help resolve the problem.
 - **Empathize with feedback**: Drafts a reply that provides an empathetic response to a customer who expresses a complaint.
  - **Provide product/service details**: Drafts a reply that offers details or answers customer questions about a particular product or service.
 - **Resolve customer's problem**: Drafts a reply that provides a resolution&mdash;and resolution steps, if applicable&mdash;to the customer's problem.
 - **Custom**: Allows you to provide your own prompt for the reply.

  **Use Copilot recommended email templates**

  When you respond to an email linked to a case, in the email editor, the **Draft with Copilot** card appears. In the card, service representatives can specify a prompt with context about the email draft Copilot should generate. For example, a prompt can be “Write an email about documents required for account verification”.

  Copilot automatically selects the most appropriate email template and inserts it in the email editor, based on your prompt and the email context. If the email template contains a pre-configured prompt, Copilot automatically generates the draft based on the prompt text when you insert a template. Parts of the email generated by Copilot is clearly marked with a distinct visual element.

  > [!NOTE]
  > You can use Copilot recommended email templates only when there's no text in the email editor. If there's text in the editor, Copilot generates an email draft without using an email template.

   :::image type="content" source="../media/copilot-draft-email.png" alt-text="Screenshot of draft an email in rich text editor."::: 
 
  If the draft is satisfactory, you can select **Keep it** to use it as-is.

  Copilot displays the email template used to generate the draft. You can select **Choose a different template** if the template isn’t appropriate. The following actions are applicable:
   - The **Copilot recommended templates** dialog appears.
   - The system displays five email templates that Copilot recommends based on the context of email. 
   - You can select one of the templates recommended by Copilot or manually search for and insert an email template. Learn more in [Enhanced email template selection dialog](/power-apps/user/insert-email-template#enhanced-email-template-selection-dialog).
   - Multi-turn responses and **Use knowledge base** toggle aren't applicable when Copilot generates an email draft using the email template.
 
   :::image type="content" source="../media/draft-an-email-inline.png" alt-text="Screenshot of Copilot recommended email draft in rich text editor."::: 

   **Use line-of-business tagged email templates**
   
   Copilot automatically selects the most appropriate email template based on your case's business context, streamlining your email drafting process. If your administrator tagged email templates with line-of-business information, for an email associated to the case, the Copilot performs the following actions to generate a response:

   - Analyzes the case context and identifies the line-of-business.
   - Selects the appropriate template tagged with the corresponding line-of-business
   - Generates the email draft using the selected template and displays the template used in the editor.
   - If no email template exists for your case's line-of-business, Copilot generates a draft without using an email template.
   
   You can use the content as-is or edit the content of the email draft as needed. If you want to change the template, you can select **Choose a different template** to open the **Copilot recommended templates** dialog and select a different template.
   
  **Generate partial email drafts using Copilot**

  You can use Copilot inline email assist to generate a partial draft instead of generating a whole email draft. You can use this feature to generate a response to a specific part of the email or to add more details to an existing email draft.

  Perform the following steps to generate the partial draft:

  1. Insert your cursor where you want to generate partial text in the email body and then select **Draft with Copilot**. The **Draft with Copilot** card appears. 
  1. Specify the prompt for Copilot to generate a partial draft. For example, "Add a personal statement of empathy".
  1. Select **Generate**. Copilot generates the partial draft. You can use it as-is or adjust the draft before adding it to the email.
  1. You can also turn on the **Use knowledge base** toggle to use knowledge base sources to generate the draft. 

   :::image type="content" source="../media/partial-draft-email.png" alt-text="Screenshot of a partial draft an email in rich text editor."::: 

 **Use follow-up prompts**

 If you aren't satisfied with Copilot's response, you can use follow-up custom prompts and guide Copilot in a natural, conversational way. You can use up to five prompts at a time to refine the email draft. If the knowledge base is enabled, Copilot will also use those sources.

  
### [Draft an email in the Copilot help pane](#tab/copilothelppane)

  You can select **Filters** to choose the relevant knowledge articles only that Copilot must use to generate the response.

 **Use prompts**

 You can use the predefined prompts to generate email drafts in the **Write an email** tab of the Copilot help pane:

 - **Suggest a call**: Drafts a reply that suggests a call with the customer the same day or the next day.
 - **Request more information**: Drafts a reply that requests more details from the customer to help resolve the problem.
 - **Empathize with feedback**: Drafts a reply that provides an empathetic response to a customer who expresses a complaint.
  - **Provide product/service details**: Drafts a reply that offers details or answers customer questions about a particular product or service.
 - **Resolve the customer's problem**: Drafts a reply that provides a resolution&mdash;and resolution steps, if applicable&mdash;to the customer's problem.
 - **Custom**: Allows you to provide your own prompt for the reply.

 > [!NOTE]
 > - If the knowledge base isn't enabled, you will see the **Suggest a call**, **Request more information**, **Empathize with feedback**, and **Custom** prompts only.
 > - If you've left the **Regarding** field empty, you will see the **Suggest a call**, **Empathize with feedback**, and **Custom** prompts only.

  :::image type="content" source="../media/copilot-email-sidepane-mini.png" alt-text="Screenshot of draft an email in the side pane." lightbox="../media/copilot-email-sidepane.png":::

---

### How Copilot uses knowledge base and web sources

If your administrator enabled knowledge sources and set up trusted domains, the following actions occur:
-  Copilot uses internal knowledge base sources and searches the internal knowledge base and up to five trusted domains to generate email drafts. 
- The application displays the knowledge sources used to generate the draft when you select **Check sources**.
- When you use a custom prompt to further refine the response, the application displays the **Use knowledge base** toggle that's set to **On**. You can switch the toggle to **Off** to disable knowledge base sources.

### Review suggested replies

When you select one of the predefined prompts, Copilot generates a suggested reply that's displayed on the UI incrementally. You can also see the inline citations that show the knowledge base or website links from which Copilot drew the response. When you hover over the citation, you can see an inline link to the source. You can select **Stop Responding** to stop Copilot from generating the email draft. The application displays the prompts for you to start over. 

### Refine replies

You can select the Adjust with Copilot icon to change the length and tone of the response in the English language. Do the following: 

**Length**: Select **Short**, **Medium**, or **Long** to condense or expand on your text. <br>
**Tone**: Select **Friendly**, **Professional**, or **Formal** to adjust the tone of your text.


### Use the responses

To use the draft that Copilot generates, do the following actions:
- In the rich text editor, select **Keep it**. You'll see the draft in the rich text editor that you can use as-is or further edit before sending it to the customer.
- In the Copilot pane, you can:
    - Select **Edit** to further refine the response.
    - Select **Translate** to translate the response to another language.
    - Select **Copy** to copy the response and then paste it in the email body.

### Start over

To return to the prompts, select **Start over** at the bottom of the Copilot pane.

## Translate responses

If translation is enabled, you can select **Translate** and then select your preferred language to translate the response to that language. You can also select **Show original** to translate the response back to the original language.

## Next Step

[Use Copilot to solve customer issues](use-copilot-features.md)

### Related information
[View, compose and respond to email](/power-apps/user/view-compose-email)  
[Enable Copilot to draft emails](/dynamics365/customer-service/administer/copilot-email-enable)  
[FAQ for Copilot in Customer Service](/dynamics365/customer-service/administer/faq-copilot-features)   
[Responsible AI FAQ for copilot features](/dynamics365/customer-service/implement/faq-responsible-ai-copilot)    
