---
title: Set up voice agents to use intents (preview)
description: Learn how to configure intent-based suggestions for Copilot agents enabled for voice using Customer Intent Agent in Dynamics 365 Contant Center to automate and streamline your contact center.
author: neeranelli
ms.author: nenellim
ms.reviewer: nenellim
ms.topic: how-to
ms.collection: bap-ai-copilot
ms.date: 08/08/2025
ms.custom: bap-template
---

# Set up voice agents to use intents (preview)

Customer Intent Agent for voice uses generative AI to autonomously discover intents in your Dynamics 365 Contact Center instance. It analyzes past interactions between customer service representatives (service representatives or representatives) and customers to create an intent library that enhances dynamic conversations. Intent benefits self-service scenarios by enabling agents to quickly understand customer needs, guide conversations with follow-up questions, and provide tailored solutions in real time.

## Prerequisites

- [Enable Customer Intent Agent](manage-customer-intent-agent.md#enable-customer-intent-agent).
- [Intent discovery is set up](manage-customer-intent-agent.md#manage-intent-discovery-setup) and intents are available in the intent library.
- [Instructions](manage-customer-intent-agent.md#manage-instructions-optional), [connectors](manage-customer-intent-agent.md#manage-connectors-for-ai-agents-optional), and knowledge are configured for intents marked for self-service.
- [New Copilot agents](/dynamics365/customer-service/administer/manage-your-bots?context=/dynamics365/contact-center/context/administer-context) are enabled for voice and connected to your contact center environment.

> [!NOTE]
> Customer Intent Agent for voice functions with the default line of business only. If you configure other lines of business, Customer Intent Agent for voice won't work.

## How it works

- An administrator sets up intent, uses historical data to build the intent library, and enables the library for Copilot agents.

- The IVR agent routes the call to the intent-enabled voice agent via the Customer Intent Agent queue.
- Copilot agent detects customer intent, asks follow-up questions related to the intent, and provides a solution from the configured resources.
- If the conversation is escalated, it's transferred to representatives. The Customer Intent Agent persists, the intent and the interview questions generated by the Copilot agent, and the customer responses.
- The application also uses this conversation to detect any updates and discover new intent attributes that can be used in future interviews.
- In the next customer interaction, the Copilot agent can address the issue using the newly-generated knowledge and intent, providing a tailored response without escalating to a representative.

## Configure voice agents

Perform the following steps in Copilot Service admin center.

1. To configure intent for voice agent, on the **AI Agents** page, select a Copilot agent for which the voice status shows as **Connected**.  We recommend that you use a newly-provisioned Copilot agent in this step.

1. Select **Manage type**. On the **Type** dialog, select **Uses AI-generated intents** and **Voice only**.
    > [!NOTE]
    > Configurations that you set for the AI agent in Copilot Studio aren't applicable after you set the type **Uses AI-generated intents**. The runtime logic for the voice agent uses the intents in the intent library only. You can add the voice agent to a workstream as the deflection agent. However, we recommend that you integrate the Customer Intent Agent enabled voice agent with your current IVR system, place the voice agent in a voice queue, and route the calls to it.

    :::image type="content" source="../media/intent-settings-for-voice-agents.png" alt-text="Screenshot of intent settings for voice agent.":::

1. Save and close. The type of the agent changes to **Voice - AI Intents**.

## Connect voice agents to voice queues or workstreams

To use Customer Intent Agent for voice, you need to connect your **Voice - AI Intents** type agent to a queue or workstream.  If you connect the Customer Intent Agent for voice to a workstream, it handles all the traffic to that workstream. However, it can't set context, and you need to configure the routing logic appropriately. If you need granular control over routing logic, we recommended that you connect the Customer Intent Agent for voice to a queue as shown in the following diagram.  In this configuration, a separate Copilot agent acts as the workstream IVR agent, and then escalates calls to the Customer Intent Agent for voice in a particular queue for the required triggers.

:::image type="content" source="../media/diagram-customer-intent-agent-voice.png" alt-text="Diagram that shows how Customer Intent Agent is integrated with existing voice agents." lightbox="../media/diagram-customer-intent-agent-voice.png":::

Follow these steps to configure the IVR agent to escalate the calls to the Customer Intent Agent for voice in a queue:

1. Create a voice queue and add the Customer Intent Agent for voice to the queue. Learn more in [create a queue](/dynamics365/customer-service/administer/queues-omnichannel).

1. In the existing topic flow for your workstream Copilot IVR agent, where you want to use Customer Intent Agent for voice, save a variable (for example va_AgentTransfer=True) and call the transfer to agent action. Learn more in [Work with variables](/microsoft-copilot-studio/authoring-variables).
1. In the route-to-queue rules of the voice workstream, route to the queue with your Customer Intent Agent based on the **va_AgentTransfer** variable. The Customer Intent Agent is invoked, and if it can't resolve the customer issue, it escalates the call and triggers the queue routing again. When the call is routed the second time, make sure that you configure the rules to route to a queue with a service representative.

## General behaviors of Customer Intent Agent for voice

- If the customer asks to be escalated to a representative, the agent complies.
- If the voice agent encounters any error, it escalates to a representative.
- If the customer query is resolved, the agent ends the call.
- If the customer remains silent, the agent ends the call.

### Related information

[Overview of Customer Intent Agent](overview-customer-intent-agent.md)  
[Configure intent-based routing](/dynamics365/customer-service/administer/configure-intent-based-routing?context=/dynamics365/contact-center/context/administer-context)  
[Configure intent-based suggestions for Copilot agents (preview)](set-up-intent-agent.md)  
