The following autonomous service agents are available out of the box:

- The Case Management Agent helps automate case lifecycle—create, update, resolve, and close—to save time that service representatives otherwise spend on manually filling case details. Learn more in the following articles:

    - [Use Case Management Agent to create and update cases](/dynamics365/customer-service/use/use-case-creation-agent)

    - [Use Case Management Agent to resolve cases](/dynamics365/customer-service/use/use-case-resolution-agent)  
    - [Use autonomous agent to follow up and close cases](/dynamics365/customer-service/use/use-case-follow-up-closure)  
- Customer Knowledge Management Agent helps extract knowledge from cases and manage customer knowledge in real time. After a case is closed, the Customer Knowledge Management Agent analyzes case details, fills knowledge gaps, and makes sure of compliance. Learn more in [Use Customer Knowledge Management Agent to create and manage knowledge articles](/dynamics365/customer-service/administer/admin-km-agent).
- Quality Evaluation Agent helps generate autonomous and AI-assisted assessments of customer interactions across cases and conversations using an evaluation framework defined by supervisors. Learn more in [Use Quality Evaluation Agent to evaluate customer engagement](/dynamics365/contact-center/administer/manage-quality-evaluation-agent).
- The Customer Intent Agent uses generative AI to identify the most common intents and suggests new ones, helping you understand customer needs better. Learn more in [Use Customer Intent Agent-based suggestions to handle conversations](/dynamics365/contact-center/use/use-intent-suggestions).
- Customer Intent Agent for voice uses generative AI to autonomously discover intents in your Dynamics 365 Contact Center instance. Intent benefits self-service scenarios by enabling agents to quickly understand customer needs, guide conversations with follow-up questions, and provide tailored solutions in real time.[Set up voice agents to use intents](/dynamics365/contact-center/administer/set-up-voice-agents-to-use-intents)
- Intent-based routing is an advanced approach to enhance the efficiency and accuracy of routing customer interactions. By capturing customer intents from incoming conversations and mapping them to appropriate solutions, intent-based routing makes sure that customer queries are directed to the most suitable service representatives. [Use intent-based routing to route conversations](/dynamics365/customer-service/administer/configure-intent-based-routing).
- The rollout manager is a wizard that helps AI administrators and supervisors adopt autonomous AI agents in a phased, guided, and controlled manner. Learn more in [Use rollout plans to manage AI agents](/dynamics365/contact-center/administer/create-rollout-plans).
- The Agent insights dashboard equips supervisors with real-time visibility into key performance indicators and operational trends regarding their AI agents. Learn more in [View the Agent insights dashboard to monitor AI agent performance](/dynamics365/contact-center/use/agent-insights).