The following Copilot features are available out of the box:

- When you sign in to any of the service representative apps, Copilot opens in the right side panel with the Ask a question tab ready. Copilot acts as your partner, helping to answer questions without you having to search for the information. Learn more in [Use Copilot to ask a question](/dynamics365/contact-center/use/use-ask-a-question).

- When you have an active case or conversation open, Copilot suggests prompts based on the context of the case or the conversation. Learn more in [Use auto prompts](/dynamics365/contact-center/use/use-ask-a-question#use-auto-prompts).
- Copilot proactively suggests prompts, without you having to type one, that you can use to prioritize cases effectively and solve customer queries quickly. Learn more in [Use proactive prompts](/dynamics365/contact-center/use/use-ask-a-question#use-proactive-prompts).
- Copilot conversation summaries provide context and relay the steps that you took to solve the issue. You can summarize chat and transcribed voice conversations. Learn more in [Use Copilot to summarize conversations](/dynamics365/contact-center/use/copilot-summarize-conversations).
- You can use Copilot in the email editor or use the predefined prompts in the Copilot help pane to draft an email. Learn more in [Draft emails with Copilot](/dynamics365/contact-center/use/use-copilot-email).
- Copilot generates resolution notes based on the case details, emails, and notes linked to the case to help you close the case or incident faster. Learn more in [Generate resolution notes with Copilot in non-Microsoft CRM systems](/dynamics365/contact-center/use/embed-ask-question#generate-resolution-notes).
- Copilot generates the case summary based on the case fields and activities associated with the case. Learn more in [Summarize cases in non-Microsoft CRM systems](/dynamics365/contact-center/use/copilot-use-summary).
- Microsoft 365 Copilot works across Microsoft 365 apps to help you unlock business scenarios in your organization. Learn more in [Use Microsoft 365 Copilot to chat with with case data](/dynamics365/contact-center/use/copilot-chat-customer-service-data).
- If you select the option to propose knowledge article for the case on the resolve case dialog, Copilot generates a knowledge draft when you select resolve. Learn more in [Use Copilot to generate knowledge drafts from cases](/dynamics365/customer-service/use/use-copilot-knowledge-from-cases).
- Copilot helps service representatives complete tasks related to conversations and email more easily. With the Copilot report, supervisors and customer service managers can identify the effect that Copilot is having across their customer service operation. Learn more in [View Copilot analytics report](/dynamics365/contact-center/use/copilot-analytics-report).
